{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Arial;}{\f1 Courier New;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\f0\fs32\b iBudget Backend API Documentation\b0\fs20\par
\par
This document provides a comprehensive list of all REST API endpoints available in the iBudget backend system.\par
\par
\fs24\b 1. Authentication (/api/auth)\b0\fs20\par
- POST /signup: Register a new user account.\par
- POST /login: Authenticate user and receive a JWT token.\par
- GET /check-username/\{username\}: Check if a username is already taken.\par
- GET /check-email/\{email\}: Check if an email is already registered.\par
- GET /verify-email: Verify user email using a token.\par
- POST /forgot-password: Request a password reset email.\par
- POST /reset-password: Reset password using a valid token.\par
\par
\fs24\b 2. User Profile (/api/user)\b0\fs20\par
- GET /profile: Fetch the authenticated user's profile details.\par
- POST /deactivate: Deactivate the user's account.\par
- POST /delete: Soft delete the user's account.\par
- PUT /update: Update user account information.\par
\par
\fs24\b 3. Transactions (/api/transactions)\b0\fs20\par
- GET /: List all transactions for the authenticated user.\par
- GET /with-category: List transactions including category details.\par
- POST /: Create a new transaction (Income/Expense).\par
- PUT /\{id\}: Update an existing transaction.\par
- DELETE /\{id\}: Delete a transaction.\par
- GET /summary/expense: Get a summary of all expenses.\par
- GET /summary/income: Get a summary of all income.\par
\par
\fs24\b 4. Budgets (/api/budgets)\b0\fs20\par
- GET /budgets: Get all active budgets for the current user.\par
- POST /budgets: Create a new budget limit.\par
- GET /budgets/\{id\}: Get specific budget details.\par
- PUT /budgets/\{id\}: Update budget limits.\par
- DELETE /budgets/\{id\}: Soft delete a budget.\par
\par
\fs24\b 5. Savings (/api/savings)\b0\fs20\par
- GET /savings: List all active savings goals.\par
- POST /savings: Create a new savings goal.\par
- GET /savings/\{id\}: Get details of a specific savings goal.\par
- GET /savings/transactions: List all savings-related transactions.\par
- POST /savings/\{savingId\}/transactions: Add a deposit/withdrawal.\par
\par
\fs24\b 6. AI Chatbot (/api/chatbot)\b0\fs20\par
- POST /message: Send a message to Bonzi Buddy AI assistant.\par
\par
\fs24\b 7. Notifications (/api/notifications)\b0\fs20\par
- GET /: Fetch all notifications.\par
- GET /unread-count: Get count of unread notifications.\par
- PUT /\{id\}/read: Mark a notification as read.\par
- PUT /mark-all-read: Mark all notifications as read.\par
\par
\pard\fs18\i Note: All endpoints (except public Auth ones) require a valid JWT Bearer token in the Authorization header.\i0\par
}